Michael Hoefer: Hello.
Michael Hoefer: Can you hear me.
Michael Hoefer: I can't hear you.
Michael Hoefer: Hello.
Geanie polo: Yes, I can hear you now.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, great.
Michael Hoefer: So hi, my name is Dr Hofer I'm a psychiatrist working with bright heart health, and it's nice to meet you.
Michael Hoefer: Hi. And so I'm going to be doing your intake into our program today. We have about 30 or 40 minutes or so that I'll be asking you some questions about opiate use and also your medical and psychiatric history, and then we'll come up with a plan of what to do next.
Okay, okay.
Michael Hoefer: Can you tell me how you heard about our program.
Geanie polo: Um, well, a friend of mine told me you know to Google stuff on the internet and, you know, look for help. I'm trying to get off of this stuff. I haven't slept.
Geanie polo: It's been like almost two days I'm and just like so much pain like sweating.
Geanie polo: You know, I just can't even eat or drink anything it's
Geanie polo: So I Googled one of these clinics and I looked up something you guys have that will take the withdraws and help me get off. Gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And what what kind of stuff have you been taking
Geanie polo: Heroin heroin.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And how long have you been using heroin for
Geanie polo: About eight months.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and prior to that were you using prescription opiates are prescribed prescription opiates at any point like
Geanie polo: Like it in
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And what were the prescriptions for it. Did you have pain issues.
Geanie polo: Um, well, no, I just I just used to take them. Even if I didn't have pain and then like if I didn't take them. It'll be like I'm in pain. If I didn't have them. Sure.
Geanie polo: Yeah, like I can't like function right or but I just want to get off of everything I want to like
Geanie polo: You know, try to detox or sure
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, that makes sense. If it's all right. I'll just ask you some kind of historical stuff about your opiate use just so I make sure I understand, like, when was the first time you ever used opiates. How old were you
Geanie polo: Pills.
Geanie polo: I tried it. Like when I was like
Geanie polo: 2022 but I wasn't like addicted or anything.
Michael Hoefer: And when did you start using it daily or when did you feel like you became addicted.
Geanie polo: Maybe about three years ago. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And what what's kind of some of the problems or some of the suffering in your life that you're opiate use this cost.
Geanie polo: Honestly, a
Geanie polo: Couple of people just introduced it to me and
Geanie polo: I tried it and I liked it, it and I just kept taking it.
Michael Hoefer: That's right.
Michael Hoefer: And what, what did you like about it. What did it do for you that that
Geanie polo: Just speed and
Geanie polo: You know making you feel
Geanie polo: Like more alert. Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And and what type of problems. Has your opiate use caused in your life. Like what kind of issues as a cost.
Geanie polo: It caused me not to
Geanie polo: Want to be around people.
Geanie polo: family gatherings and just stuff like that.
Geanie polo: Not wanting to work.
Geanie polo: Yes, that kind of stuff. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: So more isolating not working as a cause you any legal issues at all.
Geanie polo: No. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: As it caused you any physical issues or, you know, mental health or physical issues you have from your op
Geanie polo: That's why I want to try to get off. You know, I don't want it to get wurster
Michael Hoefer: And how about your
Geanie polo: Relationships as
Michael Hoefer: The cause problems that any of your relationships.
Geanie polo: Well, I don't really have maybe that's why i mean i don't i'm not into new relationships or anything. I'm not taking any one serious just more concerned about you know how to get my drug in
Geanie polo: That kind of seems like I just want to be alone with it that's
Geanie polo: Good offer
Michael Hoefer: And is it is. And has anybody you know family or friends, or anybody expressed concern about your opiate use
Geanie polo: Yes.
Geanie polo: And that's why I don't really talk or deal with
Geanie polo: Anyone
Michael Hoefer: Because they they they express concern or give you a hard time about it.
Geanie polo: Yeah yeah like I know. They mean well, but yeah.
Michael Hoefer: And how do you use the heroin.
Geanie polo: It's like a tar form and I like put on before you and smoking. Smoking. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And do you ever inject it
Geanie polo: No. Oh.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever had an overdose.
Michael Hoefer: No. No. Okay. And, and ever any other issues like it sounds like you've never injected but ever like abscesses, or, you know, problems with your lungs or or smoking it
Geanie polo: No, not yet. So
Michael Hoefer: So you want to get you want to one of the reasons to get help, is to try to prevent some of
Geanie polo: These things from yes i want to prevent it for it gets wurster I mean I'm aware.
Geanie polo: Of what it can cause and
Geanie polo: The bad stuff. So I'm trying to get help, you know, while I can. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And how much
Michael Hoefer: How much heroin are using and how much are you spending on it. Would you say on average.
Geanie polo: It varies. Um,
Geanie polo: I can spend like 40 or $100 a day.
Geanie polo: Just depending sometimes I'll smoke, like a lot. And sometimes I won't smoke too much.
Geanie polo: Just like there's not a certain amount of exactly measurement of how much. I'll take every day.
Geanie polo: So it's a range. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: How do you, how do you support your habit. How are you able to get money for your habit.
Geanie polo: I mean I have work and stuff that I do so.
Michael Hoefer: What kind of work do you do
Geanie polo: housecleaning okay
Geanie polo: Yeah, just like something I do on the side.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever been in any type of substance use treatment and the past
Michael Hoefer: You know, have you ever taken Suboxone or methadone in the past.
Geanie polo: Well, that's why I wanted to try like staying on it, but I did try it before it was like a like a strip
Geanie polo: A friend of mine, like she just like cut me a piece of it and told me like to put it underneath my mouth and Uh huh. That was like five months ago and I didn't have
Geanie polo: Any you know of my medication. You know, like care when I call it my medication.
Geanie polo: And I didn't have any and I couldn't get any for a couple days and I she gave me some of that ended it helped. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Great. And so when you took it just that one time it was helpful for you.
Geanie polo: Yeah, it was, it was helpful.
Michael Hoefer: Have you ever taken liquid methadone, like from a clinic or
Michael Hoefer: Have you ever taken now tracks own or the vivid trial shot, which is once a month shot. No.
Geanie polo: No, I heard about it. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: That's what did you
Michael Hoefer: Do you have any questions about Suboxone vs at all or
Geanie polo: No. Yes. No, it is different.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah so Suboxone is which is the one you've tried is like a
Michael Hoefer: It's still it is a type of opiate but it's a pretty, it's a unique opiate it's like very, very safe and it's
Michael Hoefer: The nice thing about it is that can prevent you know cravings withdrawal and if you were to use heroin or anything like belson blocks it so you don't feel it and then you then most people will say that was a waste of money. I'm not going to do that again.
Michael Hoefer: And then, and it's also Suboxone is kind of on it's almost impossible to overdose on and most people who take it, just say I feel normal. I don't feel like
Michael Hoefer: I'm on anything. And so that's the box own contrast to that is now Trex own which can be given it a shot. Once a month and that medication is not an opiate and it just sits on opiate receptors and blocks them kind of like a shield
Michael Hoefer: And the good thing about that is you can't, you know, overdose on it. You don't get high off of it. You don't go to withdraw. If you stop it.
Michael Hoefer: And and the bad thing about it is it you have to be basically opiate free for about seven to 10 days before you start it.
Michael Hoefer: Because if you get it too early. It can make me
Michael Hoefer: And the other thing is, it doesn't help with pain like physical pain and it also people if you don't stay on it if you stop taking the shot.
Michael Hoefer: There's no withdrawal and you kind of, you can people who relapse can be very sensitive to opiates. So you have to be very careful. Yeah.
Geanie polo: Okay. Um, I think I want to do to suboptimal Suboxone
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, and
Geanie polo: Um, maybe later.
Geanie polo: I don't know if I can
Geanie polo: Would you suggest, like the shot or like what does Suboxone did that just helped me get off and, like, how long is the process like those are my questions.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, sure. So, um,
Michael Hoefer: So yeah, I think, starting with the Suboxone is a good
Michael Hoefer: Is a good strategy and down the line once you come off the Suboxone, you can always transition to the patrol for some additional benefit you know
Michael Hoefer: And I think that tends to work well for most people, especially if you're currently using heroin and you, you go into withdrawal Suboxone it's just kind of easier to start and people tend to do better.
Michael Hoefer: And really have all the, you know, there's three options available for opiate addiction. But Viva trawl maybe only about 5% of patients.
Michael Hoefer: Really should go that route and motion either do Suboxone or methadone and I think for what you're talking about Suboxone is a good place to start. So I agree.
Geanie polo: Some, some action is the better one.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, I think, for what we're talking about. That would be the best option for you once. What I'm done, getting your own history and stuff like that. I can
Michael Hoefer: write you a prescription for it tonight that all send electronically so you can get it started. And we'll talk about how to do that.
Michael Hoefer: And then the recommendations are and it's up to you whether you follow them or not. But really, the research shows you know you've been opiate using opiates for a few years and that you know that's
Michael Hoefer: an opiate addiction is a serious addiction. And so what the research shows is that most people do better if they get on Suboxone and stay on it for about a year, while they do other sorts of
Michael Hoefer: group therapy changing their lives in positive ways really building like a healthy lifestyle and then at that point when they try to come off the Suboxone they're much more successful.
Michael Hoefer: So that would be my recommendation. And of course, it's up to you whether you end up following that or not. But that's what we find is most helpful for people
Geanie polo: Okay, yeah.
Michael Hoefer: The Suboxone is a very useful tool and very helpful, but
Geanie polo: That helped me like sleep.
Michael Hoefer: Yes. Yeah, it helps people, it will help it typically helps people sleep and also typically helps people with mood and it also has a little bit of a pain benefit, along with it so it can help in multiple different ways.
Geanie polo: Like am I allowed to like to like take anything else for like sleeping or relax with that or no.
Michael Hoefer: You can, yes. Especially, we recommend things that are not the only thing that is somewhat risky mix with Suboxone are benzodiazepines.
Michael Hoefer: So things like Xanax Valium. Those things really the only way you can overdose on Suboxone is if you take a bunch of Suboxone and then take a bunch of benzodiazepines with it.
Michael Hoefer: So if you were to take sleep medications we would recommend that it be things that are not benzodiazepines. So those are things like transit own Murtaza pain Benadryl you know sleep medications that are more common, what
Geanie polo: Do you, what would you recommend to prescribe me for like taking with that but at night, I have
Geanie polo: The hardest time sleeping and my body aches like
Geanie polo: Like as backup.
Geanie polo: What would you recommend that I can take
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, so I could I could give you a few tablets of either transit or Murtaza pain. I think that for most people, once they get stabilized and Suboxone especially if you're having trouble sleeping, and also backaches and stuff like that. That sounds to me, kind of like withdrawal related
Michael Hoefer: And once the box on gets in your system and the withdrawal is taken care of. So you don't experience that anymore because the medication is so long acting people don't have withdrawal symptoms.
Michael Hoefer: And usually that resolves on its own. And you don't need other medications.
Michael Hoefer: But if you did something for the first few nights I would give you something like as a painter transit on which are very safe and you could take it to try to help get some sleep because
Michael Hoefer: If you're not sleeping everything
Michael Hoefer: In the
Michael Hoefer: World is much worse, you know,
Geanie polo: Yeah yeah
Michael Hoefer: If it's okay, I'll just transition and ask you a little bit about any psychiatric history. Do you have a history of depression or anxiety or any other psychiatric issues.
Geanie polo: No, I'm just like, like
Geanie polo: Sometimes I'll get like anxiety. But that's only if I'm like really stressed out, or like
Geanie polo: I'm
Geanie polo: Like just really thinking a lot and just really super stressed out.
Geanie polo: I'll get anxiety, but I mean I can control it.
Michael Hoefer: Do you think it's more anxiety than other people feel
Geanie polo: No, I think everyone has a little bit of anxiety, you know, um, you know, especially like after you know stressed out or you know overthinking and stuff like everyone's like that. So I don't think that I have a problem.
Michael Hoefer: With having. Have you ever seen a psychiatrist or a therapist before in your life or counselor for anything.
Michael Hoefer: No. Okay. Have you ever put been put on any psychiatric medications in the past like antidepressants and I anxiety meds.
Michael Hoefer: ADHD meds, anything like that.
Michael Hoefer: No. Okay. And have you ever you know struggled with suicidality or had a suicide attempt.
Geanie polo: You know now, none of that.
Michael Hoefer: Ever been to an inpatient psychiatric hospital or been put on
Geanie polo: No. No. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Do you have any medical issues that we need to know about.
Geanie polo: No, not at all. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Do you take any medications. Currently, or any nutritional supplements or anything like that.
Geanie polo: No. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: You have any allergies any medications or have you ever had a really bad reaction to any medications.
Michael Hoefer: Anybody in your family with the history of addiction issues.
Michael Hoefer: You know, alcohol or other drugs, anything like that.
Michael Hoefer: No. No. Okay. And do you use any. Sorry. That's my daughter's downstairs.
Michael Hoefer: Do you use any other drugs, other than heroin like methamphetamines or cocaine or marijuana, alcohol.
Michael Hoefer: No, nothing else. Do you smoke cigarettes.
Geanie polo: Yes.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, how much do you smoke.
Geanie polo: Like maybe
Geanie polo: 77 or eight cigarettes a day.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And how do you feel about your smoking.
Geanie polo: Um, I really would like to quit. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Great. Well, that's something we can certainly try to help you with in our program and what we usually do is focus on starting with the Suboxone but down the line. We can we can talk to you more about that and see how we can help if that's something you're interested in
Geanie polo: Can you repeat that I didn't hear the last part.
Michael Hoefer: Oh, sure. I just said that. I'm glad to hear that you're interested in quitting. And that's something we can help you with. And we usually do that, you know, as we start with the Suboxone and then we work on that, you know, in a few weeks or so. Okay.
Geanie polo: Okay, so for now I'm doing just
Michael Hoefer: Sort of harsh on first.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah.
Geanie polo: Because it's a big strip
Geanie polo: Or the pill.
Michael Hoefer: We could do either. I don't know if you have a preference.
Geanie polo: What, like what is the difference of them.
Michael Hoefer: So they're the strip tends to dissolve a little quicker and and sometimes some people feel like it's
Michael Hoefer: Stronger. The downside is depending on your insurance, it can sometimes be a little more expensive, but it's not like neither are super expensive because they're both kind of covered as essential medications.
Geanie polo: Okay. And would you be able to do. Like, I know there's a four milligram and eight. Can you do the eight
Michael Hoefer: Yes, we will do the eight milligrams
Geanie polo: Yeah, okay. Yeah.
Sure.
Geanie polo: And then, how long is this supply for
Michael Hoefer: So I can give you a seven day supply once we're done today. And then you'll get connected with a continuity therapist and doctor
Michael Hoefer: And you'll be meeting and kind of groups going forward. And then they can give you the based on your group attendance and how the, you know, your drug screens look and how you're doing and treatment they can give you more and more supplies.
Geanie polo: Okay, so you can only do a week right now. Okay. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: I just have a couple more questions. I need to ask you to finish up the intake. The next one is anybody in your family with the history of psychiatric issues that you know
Michael Hoefer: No. No. Okay. Where were you born and where did you grow up.
Geanie polo: I was born in San Francisco. And I grew up pretty much in California.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, mostly Northern California or all over California
Geanie polo: Like Los Angeles, San Francisco.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. And how far along. Did you go in school.
Geanie polo: I think eighth grade.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And how was school for you, how did you like it. What was the experience like
Um,
Geanie polo: Yeah, I mean I liked it. Okay. All right.
Michael Hoefer: Did you have any special like learning disabilities or or
Michael Hoefer: Or any special educational stuff or anything like that.
Geanie polo: Um no I just like maybe like like reading and writing
Geanie polo: Wasn't very as like hard for me.
Michael Hoefer: It was difficult. Okay. Yeah. And after finishing school, you mentioned doing work as housecleaning. Have you done any other types of trades or work that you
Michael Hoefer: Typically do. Okay. And have you have any children. And have you ever been married
Michael Hoefer: No. Okay, no children and haven't been married. Okay. And do you, where do you live, currently
Geanie polo: And Stockton.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And do you have an apartment or a house or
Geanie polo: It's like a duplex house. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And do you live with anybody.
Geanie polo: Know i just i have friend staying with me right now.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. But it's, it's your place in your life.
Geanie polo: Yeah, please.
Okay.
Geanie polo: Oh my gosh.
Michael Hoefer: I still there. Hey,
Michael Hoefer: Call no problem.
Michael Hoefer: And those are the main questions. I need to ask you, are there any questions you have for me or anything else. You feel like I didn't ask you that was important for us to know right now.
Geanie polo: I'm now so like if I do the other meetings and stuff are those like virtual as well.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, everything is virtual and everything's via zoom
Michael Hoefer: And what it would be. Is there be, like, usually there's a group of maybe six to eight other people who are on Suboxone and you know and dealing with similar issues and there's a therapist and a doctor and it usually meets weekly and kind of we work on things together that way.
Michael Hoefer: And then every once in a while. There's labs, just to check that you're doing. OK.
Michael Hoefer: And then, and then also in the group. There's a lot of stuff about like coping skills and stuff because the Suboxone is a really useful tool, but also like
Michael Hoefer: It also works best if you're doing other things in your life like behavioral and therapeutic strategies because addiction, you know, has all sorts of effects, you know,
Michael Hoefer: And that's how people usually get get better.
Geanie polo: Yeah. And then one day send
Geanie polo: Like the prescription to the pharmacy that I've requested, is it going to have my someone wanted to people upfront told me that all my insurance information will be like on their ready because I lost my card.
Geanie polo: Know like what the insurance number and all that, beyond like can you guys sent that as well.
Michael Hoefer: I, yeah, I can, I can check here to see if it's already on there. And also, I can message or care coordinator to see if that's an issue. So do you have, what type of insurance do you have
Geanie polo: Medical are like of the San Joaquin okay and they said it covered it covers
Michael Hoefer: Yes, it does. Yeah. And you're gonna you want it to go to the Walgreens on 1830 West 11th STREET.
Geanie polo: Yes. Okay.
Geanie polo: I want to make sure that they have like my information like my insurance information that you guys have
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Yes, I can.
Michael Hoefer: I will basically I'll contact or if it's not already on here. Then I'll contact her care coordinator, make sure that it gets in there.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, because I'm seeing it in my computer, but they'll also make I'll check my character to make sure that you know the
Michael Hoefer: Pharmacy has you set it up correctly.
Geanie polo: Okay. Um, I have one more question. I might take like motion with the
Geanie polo: Strips.
Michael Hoefer: Yes, you are.
Michael Hoefer: What, what type of we're kind of pain bothers you, the most
Geanie polo: Like my legs like I like the pain in my legs like it just like it's so unbearable like like just sit like in hot water like in the bathtub and stuff. I'll try.
Geanie polo: A whole bunch of stuff. And it's just like I'm constantly like tossing and turning, like I can't sleep from the pain and then if I do fall asleep. I just like I'm jumping back up out of my sleep. It's like, I don't know how to explain. Gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And this. Have you ever had any like trauma to your legs or
Geanie polo: No.
Michael Hoefer: Is it is this, do you think is this associated with the withdrawal symptoms or
Michael Hoefer: Yeah.
Geanie polo: Yes, I'm doing drugs. It's like my whole body will hurt, but I would feel it more in my legs.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Okay, so yeah, so you can take motion with this and will also monitor it, and pretty soon within a couple days you'll kind of see
Michael Hoefer: If with this, if it's really withdrawal related the Suboxone should take care of it within a day or two, and it should stop. And then if you're still having it afterwards we can you know you can consult with one of our physicians and think about what, what else might be going on.
Michael Hoefer: The thing that the only thing that's important for you and taking this medication and sounds like you already know it is that you want. You need to be in
Michael Hoefer: Moderate withdrawal before you start taking it. So I'm going to put in the prescription. Now you go pick it up, but just make sure it sounds like the last time you had any heroin was two days ago. Is that correct, yeah.
Michael Hoefer: So if you start, make sure you don't take any heroin before you start taking it and start off with taking a half of film at a time.
Geanie polo: Long. Is it like every
Geanie polo: A half like every couple hours, everyone.
Michael Hoefer: Great, so great question. So you start off with taking a half film and you can take a half film every, you know, a couple hours until you feel good. Okay, and you can take up to 16 milligrams in the first 24 hours. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: But if you feel fine after eight or after 12 just stop there, because that's good less medication. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And then you just calculate whatever amount you took
Michael Hoefer: In the first 24 hours, whether it was 1612 eight whatever it was just calculate that up and then on day two. You just take that in the morning, and that's your dose going forward. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, and try to take it each morning
Geanie polo: The full dose.
Geanie polo: As the best. And how long does it
Geanie polo: Like actually take to detox to stuff like out of my system like if I just don't want to take anything at all anymore.
Michael Hoefer: How long does it take for Suboxone to get out of your system.
Michael Hoefer: Though you have like a lot
Geanie polo: To help to heroin. Get out.
Geanie polo: Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: So if you start seeing you start taking
Michael Hoefer: Okay, great question. So if you start taking Suboxone today the heroin will likely be fully out of your system within five to seven days. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And then if you start if you start taking the Suboxone the Suboxone usually takes fully out of your system. It takes about a week or two to do it. But the thing that you should know is that
Michael Hoefer: People who try to detox with Suboxone like go from heroin addiction just takes a box on for a few weeks and stop 90% of those people relapse to heroin use within a year.
Michael Hoefer: The, the rates of relapse that going back to how nice are very, very high. If you don't get the proper treatment and that in our, you know, in the medical treatment and what the research clearly shows is
Michael Hoefer: The thing we talked about later maybe for a year, at least a year on the medication.
Michael Hoefer: Doing the groups doing the work getting helping you figure out whatever it was that got you addicted and learning coping skills.
Michael Hoefer: You know what's beneath the addiction and how do we learn, you know, healthy living skills and coping skills to deal without heroin.
Michael Hoefer: And if you don't do that. There's like I said 97% of people are right back to using heroin within a year.
Michael Hoefer: And so it's really the recommendation is if you can do it. Now you're young, you can really if you do the work. Now you can really save yourself from having to do this again in the future and potentially even be in this cycle for longer in your life.
Michael Hoefer: So I'd really, you know, that's my recommendation. And of course, it's going to be up to you to decide, you know what you do. But that's, I think it's important for you to know that information.
Geanie polo: Okay, okay.
Michael Hoefer: All right. These are all really good questions. Any you have any more questions for me anything else.
Geanie polo: Be helpful. I think that's it.
Michael Hoefer: For now. Okay, great. So we'll start off with the Suboxone and the motion. And then the question is, did you want me to prescribe you a couple of pills like sleeping pills in case you need them or
Geanie polo: Yeah, can you please
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, I'll give you, I'll give you like, you know, five or six sleeping pills in case you need them for the next few days.
Michael Hoefer: And then you can follow up with the therapist and Dr. Within though they'll get you into
Michael Hoefer: One of our care coordinators will reach out to you in the next few days to just check in and see how you're doing. And they'll get you into a group sometime next week, probably next Thursday or Friday. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. All right. It's very nice meeting you.
Michael Hoefer: And welcome to our program and good luck.
Geanie polo: Thank you so much.
Michael Hoefer: Sure. Take care. Okay.
Geanie polo: Bye bye.